Let's start with the browser app which is a bit easier and there, we can for example already get our
first issue when I delete an item and then I go back to this page here.
Now obviously the issue is that I can still go there, that even though I deleted the item,
it still is there in my recipes page,
so where I lists all my recipes.
Now this error is here on purpose,
I didn't fix it here because we will dive way deeper into advanced apps and the state management with
Angular later and this specifically has also to do with how navigation and page reusage works in
Ionic and that is something I'll dive into in the routing and navigation module.
So this is a perfect use case to see how we can debug this error and find out what's wrong.
One of the easiest things you can do when you're encountering strange behaviors or problems is if you
get an error message, read it, a lot of the error messages are actually helpful and you can at least copy
and paste the error and put it into Google
and often you will find solutions or hints or ideas on what's wrong there,
so don't get scared if you see an error message, read it. If you don't get an error message or you've
got one but you need to investigate a bit further, you can do that
and one of the easiest things you can do in that case is throw in a console log
and here, our problem seems to be that after I deleted this, I still have the spaghetti here in my list
on the recipes page.
So why don't we go into our recipes page and there where I load my recipes, where I seem to load them
incorrectly, we can throw in a console log statement and yes, console log debugging is not something you'll
win a lot of hearts or fans with
but for quick checks, it is a great tool and I would absolutely use it.
I'll dive into advanced debugging tools later too, no worries.
So now I'm logging the content of this recipes in ngOnInit of the recipes page. If we now reload this
app here, we see the output here, we see our array with the two recipes and that makes sense because when
you reload, the data's there because right now, we have no logic to save our changes to a server or anything
like that.
If I now go to my spaghetti,
obviously it's there and if I now delete my spaghetti, I'm back on the recipes page and this is our old
console log, we don't see a new one and this indirectly already tells us what's wrong here. Since we don't
get another log here,
we kind of seem to be in a situation where ngOnInit doesn't execute again and indeed, it doesn't.
Now the detailed reasons for this will be taught in the navigation routing section, basically Ionic
caches this page and doesn't recreate it when you move to another page and come back and therefore
ngOnInit doesn't execute again and therefore we don't fetch or update the recipes from the recipe
service,
that's the problem.
And this is something we can identify or narrow down with this single console log statement because
we can clearly see this does not execute again,
something has to be wrong there,
why could this not execute again and then we can find out because you learned it in this course or you'll
find it in the official docs that Ionic does cache pages and you have your reason,
now you would need to change your code such that you set up a subscription to recipes and get notified
when they change the service.
Feel free to do that,
it is a pattern we'll implement later in our main course project. So console log,
a nice tool but sometimes it's not enough or you need deeper insights, you want to dive into the exact
flow of logic in your application and that is possible as well.